technologies. Covers Direct Attached Storage (DAS), networked
storage models such as Network Attached Storage (NAS), Storage
Area Network (SAN), and Content Addressed Storage (CAS); and
applications in business continuity, replication, disaster recovery,

and cloud computing. Includes exposure to real-world storage
networking technologies.

IFT 498 — FINAL YEAR STUDENT’S PROJECT (6
UNITS)

An independent or group investigation of appropriate software,
hardware, communication and networks or information technology
related problems in information technology be carried out under the
supervision of a lecturer. Before registering, the student must submit
a written proposal to the supervisor to review. The proposal should
give a brief outline of the project, estimated schedule of completion,

and computer resources needed. A formal written report is essential

and an oral presentation may also be required

47


ATION SECURITY (2

IFT 432 - DATA AND APPLIC

UNITS) '
Introduces concept Of data and application s_ecunty. Discuss
challenges of database, and application and industrial control system

security-
[FT 435 - NETWORK ADMlNlSTRATlON 2 UNITS)
nfrastructures

As organizations grow and merge their information i

expand and demand both larger scale solutions to some of those
problems as well as different approaches 10 various processes- This
course will examine the issues surrounding several of these areas in
lecture and representative solutions in lab. The topics will include
selections from: storage authentication, enterprise administration,
clustering & load balancing, thin client support, fault tolerant/high
availability services and policies and procedures.

IFT 442 - WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS AND
NETWORKING (2 UNITS)

Covers fundamental  principles underlying  wireless data
oommun{cations. Topics include wireless transmission basics, radio
propagation issues, antennas, digital modulation, spread spectrum
teghmques and their applications, and popular standards: WiFi,
\l:lh,:lA)’( and Bl.uetooth. Also presents practical knowledge to enable
WeiF‘es:ﬁl'l, testing, deployment, debugging and commissioning of
b i, W iMAX networks and point-to-point microwave systems.
iscussions on cellular network technologies are also included.

IFT 451 - INFORM
ATION STORAGE AND
MANAGEMENT TECHNOLOGIES (2 UNITS)

Provi i i i
ma::;zsman introduction to principles of information storage and
ent including the emerging field of virtualization

46


approaches, standards, and best practices; testing and quality
assurance.

IFT 412 — SPECIAL TOPICS IN INFORMATION
TECHNOLOGY (2 UNITS)

Recent topics and developments in information technology are
expected to be introduced from year to year. Apart from seminars to
be delivered by lecturers or guests, students are expected to do
substantial readings on their own.

IFT 422 - WEB DEVELOPMENT USING CONTENT
MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS (3 UNITS)

Through lectures and hands-on lab experience, presents web
development techniques using content management systems (e.g.
Joomla, Dot net nuke). Introduces characteristics of various types of
websites  (corporate portals. intranets and extranets; online
magazines, Newspapers, and publications; e-commerce and online
reservations, government applications, small business websites).
Presents methods, languages, tools related to web content
management systems from an applied perspective.

[rFT 431-DATABASE ADMINISTRATION (2 UNITS) |

D advanced concepts of database adminisu.atimf using
i ase management system. Topics include:

terprise-level datab: i

;r;cl:t‘:p recovery, corruption, automatic management, resource
managémem, job scheduling, space mimagemem, mmc.l?;y
management, storage management, diagnosis and corresponding

tools.

45


information technology on society, online communities and social
implications, philosophical context, diversity issues, gender related
issues, cultural issues, accessibility issues, globalisation issues,
economic issues in computing, and digital divide; intellectual
property — foundations of intellectual property, ownership of
information, plagiarism, software piracy, fair use, digital millennium
copyright act, copyrights, patents, trademarks and trade secrets,
international differences; legal issues in computing; organisational
context; professional and ethical issues and responsibilities —
relationships with professional societies. codes of professional
conduct, ethics and history of ethics, whistle-blowing, workplace
issues (harassment, discrimination), identify theft, ethical hacking;
privacy and civil liberties.

IFT 409 — INTEGRATIVE PROGRAMMING AND
TECHNOLOGIES (2 UNITS)
ole of scripting languages,

Scripting techniques — scripting and the © ang
creating and executing scripts, and influence of scripting on

programming; integrative coding — design patterns, interfaces, apd
dence—based security

inheritance; software security practices — evil
versus code access security, authentication to system resources and

services, and encryption of data between systems and sewiges; data
mapping and exchange; intersystem communications — archftectures
for integrating systems, DCOM, CORBA, RMIL, web services and

middleware.

IFT 410 — SYSTEM INTEGRATION AND
ARCHITECTURE (2 UNITS)

System architecture, testing, evaluation and benchmarking, contracts
and RFPs, and quality; system integration and deployment, system
release: pilot and acceptance testing and defect repair, system

support strategies and user support plans, and enterprise integration

44


IFT 405 — RESEARCH METHODOLOGY IN IT (2
UNITS)

Foundations of research; problem identification and formulation;
research design; qualitative and quantitative research; measurement;
sampling; data analysis; interpretation of data and technical report
writing; use of encyclopaedias, research guides, handbook etc.,
academic databases for computing discipline; use of tools/techniques
for research: reference management software, software for detection
of plagiarism.

IFT 406 - SYSTEM ADMINISTRATION AND
MANAGEMENT (3 UNITS)

Content management, content deployment (file system planning and
structure), server administration and management, uscr and group
management, backup management, security management, disaster
recovery, resource management, automation management (automatic
job scheduling), site management notebooks and documents, system
support, user support and education; administrative domains — web
domain, network domain, database domain, operating systems
domain, and support domain; secure installation; removing
unnecessary components; file system maintenance (isol_atiqn of
sensitive data); Uuser restrictions (access and author‘:samns);
user/group/file management; password standards anfi requirements;
shutting  down unnecessary/unneeded services; closmg.
unnecessary/unnccded ports; patch management/software updates;

virtualisation; yulnerability scanning.

JONAL ETHICS, LEGAL AND

- FESSION
i b NFORMATION TECHNOLOGY

4
SOCIAL ISSUES IN I
(2 UNITS)

Professional commuqications; .
context of computing — socia
43

teamwork concepts and issues; social
| informatics, social impact of

ATION TECHNOLO GY PROJECT

ND MANAGEMENT (2 UNITS)

planning, design, selection, and project mz.magement of inforn?atlon
technology systems- Development of requirements, configuration O
hardware and software, management of the procurement and
implememation process, performance requirements, conu_'act
negotiation, and legal issues within a comprehensive project; project
monitoring and control, project audits, project closure, peer review,
stress testing, quality planning, defect estimation and quality
assurance, information technology project management methods and
tools. Student will develop a tool-kit for creating a project plan for a
distributed application, and engage in @ project to improve
information technology project management capabilities of a
globally distributed information systems organisation systematically

1= INFORM
DEVELOPMENT A

IFT 402 — APPLIED NETWORKS AND SECURITY (3
UNITS)

Th\s_ course introduces the networking and security technologies
required to build and maintain a home or small-office network.
Networking topics will include client/server application software
chngguratlon, net\fvork connectivity (cabling, switch and router
2 ltliogura:lon), ba_snc IP addressing, network address translation and
i:clu:i or é):lbhc Internet access services. Security topics will
passwor;y:;l threats and .responses, firewalls, host hardening,
s anagement and virtual private networks. The course has
technologig :::r:llp?nent where.st‘udents apply wired and wireless
soplloifion: esign and administer a small network with various

42

IFT 349 - NETWORK SERVERS
INFRASTRUCTURES (2 UNITS)

Covers IP networking concepts and practices for IPv6 addressing,
DHCP and DNS in IPv6 networks, secure communication over
VPNs, VolIP architecture, Virtual Computing, Cloud Computing,
MPLS, traffic monitoring and network connectivity between
operating systems. Students learn the latest technologies of IP
networks and understand application level services used in the

Internet. Lab sessions focus on installation of applications on virtual
Servers.

AND

‘IFT 352 - DATABASE PROGRAMMING (2 UNITS)

The course introduces students to the Oracle Developer application
development utilities and tools and describes how to create and
manipulate databases in Oracle database management system. The
course provides an extensive overview of SQL and introduction to
PL/SQL. Topics include data definition and manipulation languages,
stored procedures, triggers, indexing techniques, and elementary
query optimization.

IRER 398 o5 STUDENTS INDUSTRIAL WORK
EXPERIENCE SCHEME (SIWES) (6 UNITS)

Students are attached to private and public organisations for a period
of six months with a view to making them acquire practical
experience and to the extent possible, develop skil!s_in all areas of
computing. Students are supervised during the training period am:_
shall be expected to keep records designed for the purpzse'o
monitoring their performance. They are also 'expected to submit a
report on the experience gained and defend their reports.

41


physical attacks, cyber terrorism, es

, pionage, psyops, reconnaissan
and surveillance, L e

| Space assets, and applications of GPS and
cryptographic technology. Students will research and write about the

social, ethical, and political effects of such technology.

[IFT 301 - DATA ANALYSIS 2 UNITS)

Introduction to the basic concept of probability theory, common
distribution functions, moments of distribution functions, the
foundation of statistical analysis, sampling distribution of moments,
statistical tests and procedures, linear regression and correlation
analysis, the design of experiments, least squares. Laws of large
numbers and the central limit theorem, random walk, Markov
Chains, introduction to Poisson process.

IFT 303 — MOBILE AND PERVASIVE COMPUTING (2
UNITS)

Definitions and motivations: mobile, pervasive and ubiquit(?us
computing; physical interaction; theoretical foundations of pervasive
computing: context-aware interaction, resource and device
constraints; implementing pervasive systems: Sensor, actuators(i
embedded systems, applications, programming ‘languagzz ::d
approaches, device types and choices; _capturmgd n;ea"en .
requirements for pervasive systems: techniques and ¢ = ut%ng,
multi-sensory ~communication  USIng ?ewaszjvqts ::rvizes A
Introduction to cloud computing technologies and 1 :
practical application of mobile and cloud computing.

IFT 322 WEB SERVER ADMINISTRATION (2 UNITS)

: B T
Covers the installation, conng;ratlon,rsani dz:grt?:r:;sltrzgzs oinclude
servers, FTP servers, and DNS servers: 5
security setups, administration, and associated performan

40

ITE 204
UNITS)

Entropy: information source and entropy, mutual information,
information measures for continuous random variables; Source
coding: the source coding theorem, Kraft inequality, Shannon-Fano
codes, Huffman codes, Arithmetic Codes, Lempel-Ziv-Welch
algorithm, universal source codes; channel capacity: channel
capacity; noisy channel coding theorem for discrete memoryless
channels; channel capacity with feedback; continuous and Gaussian
channels; Error control coding: linear block codes and their
properties, hard-decision decoding, convolution codes and the
Viterbi decoding algorithm, iterative decoding; turbo codes and low-
density-parity-check codes; Rate distortion theory: rate distortion
function, random source codes; joint source-channel coding and the
separation theorem; Cryptography: basic concepts, security issues;

private-key encryption algorithms.

IFT 205 — INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY IN
BUSINESS (2 UNITS)

An overview of e-business from design to operations of
organisations engaging in the fast-paced highly competitive, global
environment of e-commerce.e-Business, strategic use of information
technology for competitive advantage, e-business impact on
organisation, globalisation, and the impact on options created
through applied information technology.

_ INFORMATION THEORY AND CODING (2

IFT 254 - INFORMATION DEFENCE
TECHNOLOGIES (2 UNITS)

This course will examine and assess the role of information
technology as a tool of warfare and civil defense. Topics will be
discussed from both defensive and offensive perspectives and will
include asset tracking, asymmetric warfare, network centric warfare,

39


8.3 LABORATORY EQUIPMENT

i.  Software Laboratory — At least 100 networked desktop
computers with direct access to internet.

ii.  Hardware Laboratory — Work-benches (for at least 50
students) equipped with logic trainers, Tools, Digital
Oscilloscope, VSAT, Routers and Networking
Equipment.

iii.  Research Laboratory.

9.0 COURSE CONTENT SPECIFICATION

IFT 201 — INTRODUCTION TO WEB COMPUTING (3
UNITS)

An introduction to the Internet, the World Wide Web, and web
development. Students will create interactive web pages by writing
HTML and CSS and by programming in JavaScript. Topics include
the origins of the web, the roles and operations of web browsers and
web servers, interacting with web applications through forms, and
using style sheets to separate document structure and document
formatting; introduction to digital media.

IFT 203 —- FUNDAMENTALS OF INFORMATION
TECHNOLOGY (2 UNITS)

Pervasive themes in information technology; information techno}ogy
systems model; a gentle introduction to information technologies —
human—computer interaction, information management; networkmg&
platform technologies, programming, and web systems an
technologies; data versus information; history of mfon::tlo:;
technology and internet; information technology a.nd its related an
informing disciplines; information technology application domains.

38

8.1 ACADEMIC

S/N DISCIPLINE &
- RESEARCH AREA S
Prof. J.O.A. Software Development;
Ayeni Computer Networks;
Operations Research
Techniques
Artificial Intelligence:
Data Mining, Machine
Learning, Intelligent and
Knowledge Base Systems
Software Engineering and
Data Mining
Computer Science —
Neural Computing
Data Communication and
Networking
Database Systems, Data
Warehousing, Data
Mining, Distributed
Systems, Recommender
Systems

DESIGNATION

Professor

Dr. S.O.
Akinola
Dr. M.O. Odim

Dr. (Mrs.) B.O.
Oguntunde
Dr.(Mrs). LO.
Awoyelu

‘8.2 ADMINISTRATIVE & TECHNICAL G
Dr. S.A. Arekete < Ag. Head of Departinons i
Mrs. O. O. Awolola - Secretary
Mr. I. S. Oyetade = Senior Technologist
Mr. N. I. Fagbamigbe - Principal Technical Officer
Mrs. T Ojewumi - Senior Programmer

Mr. E. O. Adekunle - Senior Lab Attendant


LCR.1P

. . X CR

where CR is the credit value (number of units) for each courses
offered (both passed and failed) and QP is the quality point obtained
for each course based on the grading system reflected in the table
above.

The following table summarizes our degree classification in this
programme:

CGPA =

Second Class (Lower

(150239 |ThirdClass |

1.00-1.49 | Pass

7.3 PROBATION AND WITHDRAWALS

A student shall be placed on probation when the CGPA is below 1.0
for two consecutive semesters i.e. one academic session. At the end
of probation year (that is, the following session), a student whose
CGPA remained below 1.0 will be asked to withdraw from the
programme. Any student asked to withdraw from a programme shall
be permitted to transfer to any other programme provided the
minimum requirements for admission into that programme are met.
A student can only be permitted once to transfer from one
programme to another due to poor performance.

36

7.0 REQUIRED NUMBER OF UNITS
GRADUATION

FOR

Entrant at 100 Level: Minimum of 160 units
Entrant at 200 Level: Minimum of 120 units

Note: All units passed must include all compulsory units at
appropriate levels of the programme. However, entrants at 200 level
must also obtain units in all GST courses at 100 level which they
have not obtained in this or any approved university in Nigeria.

7.1 COURSE GRADES AND  DE
CLASSIFICATION 3

In this programme, a 5-point grading system is used and for each
course, a candidate shall be recorded as having attained an
assessment grade and corresponding grade points as described

below:
ST e e
Points Yo Exams

—a | 5. [70100]Adal g ="

“--ﬂ

““EmﬂMid-Smester Test m]
[ 40
60 ]
[ 100 |

o TmicA__—————
-g-

72  CALCULATION

POINT AVERAGE (CGF i i e o
Universitys

as adoptedm::' 'h:“s and credits camed by

This is defined as:

&

The CGPA system,
consideration all courses mk:néourses
students including all repeate -

3

6.0 SUMMARY OF COURSE UNITS
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY) I

(BSC

Total number of units available = 180
Total number of compulsory units = 143
Total number of available elective units = 37

34


SECOND SEMESTER 400 LEVEL
m:m_

Cisco  Certified Networking
A:LCND1& 1

Associate® CCN
i
Development Strategies
lﬁ!!_
R
Management
vy (e
Architecturé
W Management Systems
Total Compulsory Courses
’Dam and Application Security
Wireless Communications and
Networking
/Toml Compulsory Courses
e Courses

Available Electiv
Total Units Available
'm Units 0 €8
cgistrable

s

As

H

‘
‘

F

-
11

\\ﬁ

ter

FIRST SEMESTER 400 LEVEL n

-
Course Code
CcSC411

I

‘

IFT 405 Research Methodology
IFT 407

Integrative Programming and
IFT 43] Database Administration

Course Title Uni —
: e nits
Mobile Application Development 3
2 &

Information Technology

Professional Ethics, Legal and 2 6
IFT 409

Technologies
IFT 473 Selected Topics in Information -

Technolog

Network Administration
Information Storage and
Management Technologies

CSC 461 Foundations of Human-Computer | 2 C
Interaction
Social Issues in Information
2
RUN-FIC Faith, Work, Vocation
401

GIT 403 Cisco Certified Networking C
Associate® CCNA: LCND [ & 11 -
[FT 401 IT  Project Development &
gement
Technology
—Total Compulsory Courses -

IFT 451

Total Compulsory Courses
Available Elective Courses %
Total Units Available m
Minimum Units to register m
Maximum Registrable

32

" Course Code | Course Title
CSC13 | Web Design
[CSC 3120 lﬂy«ltm And)\n-\d%;

TOSC 326 len‘hxlun W Internet
+

| Technology

GIT 304 ’

T

[T

[T %2

NS o

Computuary Comrves : 15 units
Availabic | iective Comrses . A units
Totel Usnits Avallable - 19 units
Marimum Regrtrable ; 21 units


FIRST SEMESTER 300 LEVEL A e

'
CSC 343 Database Systems | n
CSC 345 Computer Architecture & 3 €
Organization |
Java Object-Oriented Programming e
Language

m Mobile and Pervasive Computing n

Network Servers and n n
Infrastructures : 4 ;

Courses &

;

Compuls,

: ry
?vallable Elective Courses 5

9| Units Ayaj
Maximu - yaxlable

|

KN
7

SECOND SEMESTER 200 LEVEL

e
w Object-oriented Programming
m Discrete Structures

E
E.

Data Structure and Algorithms

¥

CYB 202 Network Administration

GIT 204 Oracle  Database  11g: SQL

Fundamental I & 11

GST 202 Entrepreneurial Skill Development
11

GST 210 A Study in Leadership IV

MAT 204 Linear Algebra

STA 202 Statistics for Physical Sciences &
Engineering

ECO 202 Principles of Economics

IFT 204 Information Theory and Codi L

IFT 254 Information Defence Technologies

SEN 206 Software Construction

O
=

o

iomfulsory Courses - 18 units
vailable Elective Courses - _9 units
Total Units Available - 27 units
Maximum Registrable - 25 units

29 !

®


|

FIRST SEMESTER 200 LEVEL P e 2

A Study in Leadership 11

SEN 201 Introduction to Software Engineering

Cyber Security in Business and
C
m Management Information Systems |

Compulsory Courses
Available Elective Courses
Total Units Available
Maximum Registrable

g

H.‘
E

HH

'H
HH

!H


s —

SECOND SEMESTER 100 LEVEL

i et
m Introductory Health Study

INS 102 Introduction  to

MAT 102
PHY 102 General Physics IT

PHY 104 Experimental Physics Il

CYB 102

SEN 104

Compulsory Courses
Available Elective Courses -
Total Units Available -
Maximum Registrable =

27


[

5.0 CURRICULUM (B.SC =
o X "ORM
TECHNOLOGY) ATION

FIRST SEMESTER 100 LEVEL

m Introduction to Computer Science
GIT 101 fz‘t;‘ﬁed Secured Computer User

Use of English I

m Nigerian Peoples and Culture

Elementary Mathematics 1
Experimental Physics [
General Biology |
Practical Biology !

_CHE 191 Experimental Chemi 2
= = 7 units

Compulsory Courses i

HE

HH
H

'H
HH

HI
HH

H

—

§ unl§
Available Elective Courses = 25 units
Total Units Available g 25 units
Maximum Registrable i

26

13 LEAVING THE EXAMINATION HALL WITHOU
PERMISSION OF THE CHIEF INVIGILATOR

Penalty: The student shall be scored zero in the e

24 FAILURE BY A CANDIDATE TO SUBMIT
ANSWERS SCRIPTS AFTER TAKING PAR
EXAMINATION,

Penalty: Rustication for 2 semesters

25, IMPROPER BEMAVIOUR IN LABORATORY DU
EXAMINATIONS :

Any behaviour in the laboratory or workshop during “ :
mnmw“.ﬁg’mam' =
safety of others in the laboratory or workshop. .

Pemalty: Dusciplinary measure as recommended by the appr

26 OTHER EXAMINATION MISCONDUCT

Other types of examination misconduct/offences not sp
listed above but related.

THAT 1S
IO et Mm(;ﬂm? FACAKAGE 1S AN
OFFENC
penalty Expulsion
o, DISOBEYIN ANY  LAWFUL EXAMINATION
STRUCTIONS

Any student found disobeying any lawful ex.mni.nati?n .immlctillls
from examination officials while the examination 15 in progre:
such as failure {0 stop writing Of writing before the examination

starts has committ an offence.

Penalty: Letter of wamning

A student who had been issued letter of warning for one Semester
or session on account of examination misconduct(s) and is
subsequently found guilty of any other offence under examination.

Penalty: Rustication for 1 semester plus the penalty for the
offence.

21. FALSE MEDICAL CERTIFICATE

Subt'nining a false medical or other certificate(s) or obtaining such
cemﬁcatsunderfnlsepmmforexnmimﬁmpmpos&isan
offence.

Penalty: Rustication for 1 semester.

22. SITTING FOR

EXAMINATIO WITHOUT
QUALIFICATION .

Sitﬁngforanemhmﬁmforwhichnwxdidl&hnol i
suchwmlneetingthcmmma qml'lﬁed.

Puﬂty:“cmtﬂtofﬂwmmmdummllbembd.

24


Penalty: Rustication for a minimum of | semester

14, STEALING QUESTION PAPERS, MARKING SCH
AND OTHER EXAMINATION MATERIALS

Stealing of question papers, markiFg SChe.me.-M‘j =
examination materials from a University official is a seri
offence. R
Penalty: Expulsion

15. RE-SUBMISSION OF USED MATERIALS

Any student who re-submits a test paper, an essay, a
assessment for a course after such had already been gr:
being graded has committed an offence.

Penalty: Letter of warning and award of zero for that
16. COMING LATE INTO THE EXAMINATION HALL

If a student comes thirty minutes late after the commes
an examination, he or she has committed an offence.

Penalty: Without genuine reason, the student is not a
the examination hall, and scored zero in that academic
the student has genuine reason, he/she is allowed to
examination at the next available opportunity without

17. AIDING AND ABETTING OTHERS

Any student caught aiding and abetting others to " i
unauthorized material while examination is in progre
committed an offence. =3

Penalty: Rustication for 2 semesters

9. FAILURE TO APPEAR BEFORE EXAMINATION
MISCONDUCT PANEL

A student who fails to appear before the duly constituted
Examination Malpractice and Irregularities Committee is subject to
disciplinary measure.

Penalty: Expulsion

10. INFLUENCING INVIGILATORS/EXAMINATION
OFFICIALS

If a student is found attempting to gain favour by influencing an
invigilator or examination officials through oral, written or other
means, the students involved has committed an offence.

Penalty: If backed up with evidence, the student should be
sanctioned by Disciplinary Committee.

11. CONSULTING RECOMMENDED BOOKS OR LECTURE
NOTES

Any student caught consulting recommended books or lecture
notes during examinations, except otherwise directed by the
Examiner, has committed an offence.

Penalty: Rustication for 2 semesters
12. UNAUTHORISED CHANGING OF SITTING POSITION

If a student fails to consult the invigilator before changing his/her
sitting position, such a student has committed an offence.

Penalty: Letter of warning

13. REFUSAL TO COMPLETE EXAMINAT  ION
MISCONDUCT FORMS

Any student who refuses to complete Misconduct Form has
committed an offence.

22

< BEING FOUND IN EXAMINATION HALL WITH JOTTED
NOTES

Any student found with jotted notes, cribs or chips on body, under

the locker or in the vicinity, writing relevant materials on palms
and other places has committed an offence.

Penalty: Rustication for 2 semesters

6. SOLICITING

FOR THE ASSISTANCE OF FELLOW
STUDENTS

Any student caught soliciting information or assistance, for

example copying, exchange of answer sheets or question papers in
the examination hall, has committed an offence.

Pemalty: Rustication for 2 semesters

7. DESTRUCTION OF  EVIDENCE RELATED TO
EXAMINATION MISCONDUCT

Any student who destroys evidence related to an examination
misconduct has committed an examination offence

Penalty: Rustication for 2 semesters
SPYING IN THE EXAMINATION HALL

Any student caught spying the work of another student, or cheating
on some other student’s paper has committed an offence.

Penalty: Letier of waming for first offender

Persistent offender: more serious men
unish
the Disciplinary Committee s 1o be St


! IMPERSONATION

{f a student is discovered impersonating or helping another student
to sit for an examination, both the impersonator and the
impersonated student shall have committed an offence.

Penalty: Rustication for 2 semesters

. ASSAULT ON INVIGILATORS/EXAMINATION
ATTENDANT

If a student physically attacks or assaults an invigilator or is
involved in any unruly behaviour leading to the disruption of an
examination, such a student has committed an offence.

Penalty: Rustication for 2 semesters and Letter of Apology to
those concerned

_COMING TO THE EXAMINATION HALL WITH
PREPARED ANSWERED SHEET/SCRIPT

A student who comes to the examination hall with prepared answer
scripts written on paper, on the body, clothing, and so on is liable
to a penalty.

Penalty: Rustication for 2 semesters

. SMUGGLING QUESTION PAPERS ouT OF
EXAMINATION HALLS

A student caught smuggling question papers out before
examinations commence or during examinations has committed an
offence.

Penalty: Rustication for 2 semesters

20

9. Candidates are advised in their own interest to write le
and avoid using faint ink. Answer must be written in
except where otherwise instructed.

10. It is compulsory for every candidate to answer each quest
on a fresh page of the answer booklet.

11. Silence must be observed in the examination hall. °
permissible way of attracting the attention of the
by any candidate is by raising his/her hand.

12.1t is the responsibility of each candidate to subm
scripts before leaving the examination hall. The
sheets provided for the examination must be duly ¢
each candidate at the time of submitting the answer

13.1t is in the interest of every candidate to insert
appropriate places, his/her matriculation numbers
number of questions answered before the submission.

4.9.3 EXAMINATION OFFENCES AND PENAI
FOR STUDENTS

_Studer.ns are hereby informed that actions which prej
integrity and sanctity of the University examinations
considered punishable by appropriate disciplinary actions.

1t shou!d be noted that the Redeemer's University is commi 0
promoting discipline and integrity at all times, including in th
University examination system. Students are, therefore, ch
read and familiarize themselves with the rules, guidelines, ©
and penalties as stated below. Full implementation will be

by the authorities of the University fc :
i ty for any breach of the exz

Below are the examination offence i

1 s and the prescribed :
After a thorough investigation by the appropriate Commi
appropriate penalties will be imposed on anyone found guilty.

19

9. Candidates are advised in their own interest to write legibly
and avoid using faint ink. Answer must be written in English,
except where otherwise instructed.

10. It is compulsory for every candidate to answer each question
on a fresh page of the answer booklet.

11. Silence must be observed in the examination hall. The only
permissible way of attracting the attention of the invigilator
by any candidate is by raising his/her hand.

12. 1t is the responsibility of each candidate to submit his/her
scripts before leaving the examination hall. The attendance
sheets provided for the examination must be duly signed by
each candidate at the time of submitting the answer script.

13.1t is in the interest of every candidate to insert at the
appropriate places, his/her matriculation numbers and the
number of questions answered before the submission.

4.9.3 EXAMINATION OFFENCES AND PENALTIES
FOR STUDENTS

?luder.\(s are hereby informed that actions which prejudice the
integrity and sanctity of the University examinations shall be
considered punishable by appropriate disciplinary actions.

It should be noted that the Redeemer’s University is committed {0
promoting discipline and integrity at all times, including in the
University examination system. Students are, therefore, charged t0
read and familiarize themselves with the rules, guidelines, offences
and penalties as stated below. Full implementation will be enforced

by the authorities of the University for any breach of the examination
regulations.

Below are the examination offences and the prescribed penalties.
After a lhorougl} investigation by the appropriate Committee,
appropriate penalties will be imposed on anyone found guilty.

19


cards by the invigilator. The dressing must be in compliance
with the approved dress code of the University.

No books or any unauthorized materials including mobile
phones and digital wristwatches shall be brought into the
examination halls. Candidates might bring with them only
authorized materials such as pens, erasers, and any other
materials which they are specially allowed to bring into the
examination hall. Programmable calculators and the likes
might only be brought into the examination halls with the
special permission of the Chief Invigilator as stated by the
course examiner.

While examination is in progress, communication, exchange
of ideas or aiding in whatever form between candidates is
strictly prohibited. Any candidate found to be giving or
receiving irregular assistance shall face disciplinary actions.

1t shall be a breach of examination rules for any student to

impersonate a candidate in any University examination.

_ The use of other answer booklets other than those specifically

provided and stamped by the University for each examination
is unacceptable. The use of scrap papers is not permitted. All
rough works must be done in the Answer Sheets and crossed
out neatly. All supplementary answer sheets, including those
used for rough works must be tied inside the main answer
booklet.

. No used or unused answer booklet will be allowed to be

taken away by candidates. Tearing of any part of the answer
booklet is a serious offence.

. Itis in the interest of every student to strictly comply with all

directives given on the question papers, answer booklets and
other examination materials supplied to them. The directives
of invigilators must also be adhered to during the
examination.

18

PR ———
A

9. Each student must make conscious efforts to attend lecture
classes, tutorials and practicals in at least §evepty percent
(70%) of the time to qualify to write examinations in any

course registered for. e

3. Each student must monitor the examination time table and
ensure that adequate provisions are made for all courses
registered for.

4. Where there are omissions or clashes, the student concerned
must promptly draw the attention of his/her Head of
Department to the same for immediate action.

5. Candidates must process and obtain valid Student Identity
(ID) Cards before the commencement of the examinations,
since no student shall be allowed into the examination hall,
practicals, orals or written, without a valid Student ID card.

6. Once a student has registered for a course and he/she has not
withdrawn from the course by the middle of the semester,
he/she is automatically deemed to have registered for the
course examination.

7. Candidates who fail to present themselves for an examination
for reasons other than illness, accident or some exceptional
circumstances, shall be deemed to have failed the course.
Any student absent on the ground of illness must provide a

medical report certified by the University Director of Health
Services.

\_4.9.2 CONDUCT DURING EXAMINATION

1. Candidates must attend punctually at the time assigned their
papers and must be ready to be admitted into the examination

venue not later than fifteen (I15) mi
inutes
commencement of the examination. i

2. Student should .dress in such a w.
ay that thei i
appearance could be effortlessly matched with th‘::rid:?:t:;:)l!

17


————

15 REQUEST FOR REVIEW OF EXAMINATION'S
RESULTS

|. Examination results shall be released by course examiner(s),

using the matriculation number, the mark scored by the

candidate in each course with the corresponding letter grade.

After Senate approval, the Registrar  shall take the

responsibility of informing students and their sponsors of the

results at the end of every Semester/Session.

3. Sessional results shall normally be released to the students
before the beginning of the following session, using the
approved format.

4. All results executively approved by the Vice Chancellor shall
come before Senate for ratification.

(3]

4.9 EXAMINATION REGULATIONS AND
DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS 3

Students are hereby informed that actions which prejudice the
integrity and sanctity of the University examinations shall be
considered punishable by appropriate disciplinary actions.

It should be noted that the Redeemer's University is committed to
promoting discipline and integrity at all times, including in the
University examination system. Students are therefore charged to
read and familiarize themselves with the rules, guidelines, offences
and penalties as stated below. Full implementation will be enforced
by the authorities of the University for any breach of the examination
regulations.

‘4.9.1 ADMISSION TO EXAMINATION HALL

1. Each student must register for all the approved courses for
each semester before the deadline prescribed by the Senate of
the University.

16

Fines for recalled material accumulate at the rate 9f N10.00k per
effective one week from the date of recall. Fines must
promptly- Unpaid fines will be referred 10 the Bursar's O

necessary action.

All borrowed items are renewable unless booked by another re

Do not take any library book without going through
Processes.

4.7.2 SANCTIONS FOR
INTERPERSON AL RELATIONSH!P AND OTHER

A proven incidence of the following offences shall be
criminal and shall lead to summary dismissal from the
Residence, and invariably from the university:

1. Membership of any secret society OF cult.

2. Possession of firearms and/or live bullets, of any
dangerous weapons like daggers, swords, axe, acid, etc.

3. Possession of hard drug and/or trafficking in hard drugs

4. Sexual assault-including rape or any other form
immorality.

5. Theft

6. Burglary

7. Fraud

8. Forgery

9. Murder

10. Destruction of university property under any pretense.
11. Any other offence that could be classified as criminal.

15

L

4.7.1
UNIVERSITY LIBRARY

Items borrowed must be returned on or before the due date to avoid

R?gister and submit course registration forms within the time
stipulated by the University authority and must not register
on behalf of another student;

Be punctual to lectures/practical/tutorials/workshop
practical/field trips.

. Switch off cell phones in the Library, during lecture hours

(9a.m — 1:00p.m and 2p.m. — Sp.m and any other formal
lectures including especially, devotion and church activities.)
Not be involved in any form of examination misconduct
including impersonation or aiding or abetting others in doing
S0;

Not offer money, sex, or other enticements in exchange for
higher grades/alteration of records/documents and must not
be involved in any form of forgery.

Dress decently and be polite to all staff and the general
public; e

Not do anything to tarnish the image of the University;

Not deface University properties, buildings through
placement of posters and handbills;

Not litter University premises with pieces of paper, nylon
bags, pure water sachets, food packages, etc.,

Not walk on or cross the lawns;

If in doubt, check with the appropriate authprities, especially the
Director, Directorate of Students' Support Services.

SANCTIONS FOR MISCONDUCT IN THE

fines. Any book recalled must also be promptly returned to avoid

fines.

Overdue books and pamphlets attract fines at the rate of N10.00k per

day.

14

Attendance at Lectures = 5 points/marks o>
Mid-Semester Test/Assessment - 20 points/marks

Practical sessions/Class test/term  paper/T:
assignments/Book revievy/Seminar
prescntation/ group work -15 points/marks

4.7 CODES OF CONDUCT

Al students must:

a. Obey the laws and regulations of the University int
matriculation oath;

b. Respect the statutory rights of staff and fellow s
University will not tolerate student behaviour U
the rights of others including but not limited to ha
physical abuse, disruption of teaching or official

etc;
Not be rude to University officials; _
_ Not engage in unruly behaviour such as hemp sm
and distribution of drugs or alcohol, drunkenness, |
sexual harassment; i1
e. Comply with all rules and regulations guid
accommodation;
f Students' demonstration resulting in the destructio

theft of University property and those of other staff’
be allowed;

g. }lof engage in, or be a member of, or sponsor any
inside or outside the University;
l.|. Not obtain accommodation by fraudulent means;
i N&t sell/lease University hostel accommodat,ion
other property for unauthorized activities i in
i e it activities including re
j. Register for each Semester and
] have n  th:
attendance to qualify to write Semester exa?xtlil::isb :
13

e o

4.5 REGISTRATION OF COURSES
Normal Registration

Normal registration of courses takes place in the first week of a
given semester. However, in view of the prevailing circumstances,
the normal registration for courses shall last for three weeks. Late

registration shall be allowed for two weeks subject to the payment of
N10.000.00 late registration fees.

Late Registration of Course

Failure to complete the registration within the above-stipulated
period will be regarded as absence from the university for the
semester, and the penalty is withdrawal from the university.

Addition and Deletion of Courses

Once a student has registered for a course and he/she has not
withdrawn from the course by the middle of the semester, he/she is
automatically deemed to have registered for the course examination.

In that regard, applications for addition or deletion of course(s) on
the registration portal, that is, after due approval, should be
submitted not later than two (2) weeks after the close of registration
period in a semester. Deletion of course(s) will only be allowed not
more than three (3) weeks to the commencement of the semester
examinations.

4.6 COURSE EVALUATION

The final mark (100%) for any course shall be a combination of
Examination Score (60%) and Continuous Assessment Scores

(40%).
The Continuous Assessment component of student's grading is

distributed as follows:
12

P—-————'

who is spending an extra year is l:equired to pass
outstanding courses without being required to register for 15 :
minimum. Also, a student admitted through direct entry or t

into 200 Level is allowed to request for a maximum of 3 extra
per semester subject to Senate's approval.

4.4 PROBATION, WITHDRAWALS,
NEW PROGRAMME &5

For a student to be in good academic standing and continue in

programme, he must obtain a minimum cumulative grade
average of 1.00 at the end of each session. A student who fails
so will be placed on academic probation in the following year.
the end of the probation year his cumulative grade point avera
falls below 1.00, such a student shall be asked to withdraw from
programme. pr

Any student asked to withdraw from a programme shall be a
to transfer to another programme provided he/she has the mi

number of times a student can be allowed to transfer to anc
programme following poor performance is once.

A student who absents himself for two consecutive seme:
without a valid reason may be asked to withdraw from
University, irrespective of his cumulative grade point average.

A student for good reasons and with the approval of Senate
suspend his programme of study for an approved period, which &
normally not exceed one session.

11


4.0 ACADEMIC REGULATIONS

4.1 CORE/COMPULSORY

Compulsory courses are those courses, which a student must register
for and pass in order to qualify for graduation. Such courses are
normally those considered core to the programme. Thus, it is
possible for a course to be compulsory for one programme and to be
otherwise elective (optional) for another programme. A student who

fails a core course must register and pass the course at the next
available offering.

4.2 ELECTIVE

Elective courses are optional courses required to make up the
requirements for graduation. Each student has a choice from an array
of elective courses available. Once an elective course is chosen, the
student has the responsibility to ensure he/she passes it to enhance
his or her standing because it carries the same wait as a core or
compulsory course. If for any cogent reason an elective course is
failed, it needs not be retaken. Each student is required to take a few
elective courses per semester

4.3 WORKLOAD

The workload of each course shall be evaluated in terms of course
units. A course unit is defined as a series of 15 hours of lectures or
30 hours of tutorials or 45 hours of practical throughout the
semester. A course may be evaluated in terms of lecture hours alone
without tutorial or practical hours but may also be a combination of
lecture, tutorial and practical hours. Every student is expected to
register for a minimum of 15 credits units per semester and a
maximum of 25 credit units except for Students on Students’
Industrial Work Experience Scheme (SIWES). However, a student

10

2. Upper credit in ND/NCE in Mathematics and a
science subject. '

3. Credit in Professional Diploma in Computer Science o
from recognised institution. v

Amnsfetstudmtwithgoodaudanicmmm
programme within the University or another University, Wil
requiredtospmdaminimmnofmleeaadanic
academic semesters) to be eligible for a BSc .
Technology Degree of the Redeemer’s University. Such can
must have spent at least one full session in Information Tee

or any related discipline from any Senate-recognized Univer:
have a minimum CGPA of 2.50 upon the provision of an |
transcript. All transfer student admission applications shall
approved by the Departmental Board of Studies, Faculty Boar
Studies, and the University Senate.

Theprogmmmelastsfor4ywsotcidnmifﬁn ;
enters at 100 level and 3 years or six semesters if the ap
at 200 level.

e Network Administration

e Web Development and Administration
e System Administration

e Systems Analyst

¢ Information Security and Assurance

2.2.5 RELEVANCE OF THE PROGRAMME TO THE
SOCIETY

The focus of the IT programme is to develop manpower to meet the
computer technology needs of business, government, healthcare,
schools, and other kinds of organizations.

3.0 ADMISSION REQUIREMENTS

3.1 ENTRY TO 100 LEVEL

Admission to 100 level is through the UTME. To qualify for
admission, applicants must posSess five credit passes at the SSCE (or
its equivalent) including English and Mathematics; and three other
subjects chosen from among the following: Further Mathematics,
Physics, Chemistry, Biology, Geography and Agricultural Science.
The UTME subjects are Mathematics and any two of Physics,
Chemistry, Biology and Geography in that order of preference.

3.2 ENTRY TO 200 LEVEL

To qualify for admission to 200 Level, applicants should possess any
of the following qualifications, in addition to possessing the
requirements for admission t0 100 level:
1. Two advanced level passes in Mathematics, and either
Physics or Chemistry-

(i)

(iii)

(iv)

)

(vi)

(vii)

2.2.4 JOB OPPORTUNITIES FOR GRADUATES
B.SC (HONS) INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY

To develop in students the ability to apply knowlec
skills to solving practical problems in In
Technology:;

To equip students with the capacity for professi
practice in computing and communications;

To develop in students a range of transferrable
information technology to all aspects of h
endeavours;
To develop students for the purpose of self-employme
and job placement in the government and industry;

To generate in students an appreciation of the impo
of information technology in industrial, e
technological and social contexts; and
To develop in students the urge for acade

professional pursuit in information technolo
related disciplines.

Our graduates are empowered to be self-employed and can also

employed as:

IT consultant, Cloud architect, Computer forensic investis
Health IT specialist, Mobile application developer, Web deve
Software engineer, Information technology vendor manager., etc.

Areas of specialization for our graduates include among others:

e Web Database Administration

7

7.2.2 MISSION STATEMENT

The mission is to produce high level manpower particularly in
information technology, who would be able to cope with the
demands of advance and development in information and
communication technology and who would be relevant in the fast-
growing computer technology.

2.2.3 SPECIFIC OBJECTIVES

The general goal and objectives of Information Technology
education and training should be in consonance with the realization
of national needs and aspirations vis-a-vis industrial development
and technological emancipation. Information ~ Technology
programme aims to provide Information Technology graduates with
the skills and knowledge to take on appropriate professional
positions in Information Technology upon graduation and grow into
leadership positions or pursue research or graduate studies in the
field. In other words, Information Technology programme aims to
prepare graduates with knowledge and skills for the selection,
creation, application, integration, administration and maintenance of
computing technologies in organizations and societies. Specifically,
the graduates of Information Technology must therefore be
resourceful, creative, knowledgeable and able to perform the
following functions among others:

(i) To provide students with a broad and balanced
foundation of Information Technology knowledge and
practical skills;

The Department currently runs Postgraduate Diploma (PGD), Master
of Science (MSc)and Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) degrees jy
Computer Science. The Department has graduated three sets of |
postgraduate students as at the year 2022 Convocation. ol

2.0 SECTION TWO — INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY |
CURRICULUM

2.1 JUSTIFICATION FOR CURRICULUM ;

The National Universities Commission [1] published a ‘Benchmark
Minimum Academic Standards (BMAS) for Undergraduate
Programmes in Nigerian Universities for Computing’. The
Department is of the opinion that an opportunity has arisen for it to
propose additional programme(s) in the Department in the light of
creation of the discipline of Computing in the newly published
BMAS. Thus, a curriculum in Information Technology is hereby
proposed. As a programme, Information Technology emphasizes
the pervasive themes of user centeredness and advocacy, information
assurance and security, and the management of complexity through

abstraction and modelling, best practices, patterns, standards, and the
use of appropriate tools.

2.2 PHILOSOPHY AND OBJECTIVES i |

[2.2.1 VISION STATEMENT

E‘a:nivr:mo“di;elhat our graduates would excel in character and
moralsgwaix:h able to compete most effectively in academics and
counterparts from the best institutions in the world.

They should be able to cultj
vate and maintain hi
computer practice and technology e -

5


Students were admitted into the BSc Computer Science programme,
which was one of the initial programmes approved by NUC, at
inception of the University in 2005/2006 academic session. Over the
years, Computer Science Programme has been a pride of the
University from the beginning as it has always recorded the highest
enrolments in the Faculty of Natural Sciences year in year out. Our
graduates have also ranked among the best in the Faculty and the
University since the time the Department graduated the first set in
2009. In addition, since 2009 until date, the Department has been
producing students, some of whom had come out in First Class
Division every year. In 2009, for example, 2 students came out in
First Class and one of them was the best in the College. In 2011 and
2013, two of our students were the best in the University with CGPA
of 4.97 and 4.96, respectively. In the 2015 Convocation, four of our
final year students graduated in First Class Division. One of them
has CGPA of 4.91 and came out best in the University. In 2018
Convocation, 6 of our students graduated in the First Class Division,
one of them set the new record for the University as the best
graduating student with CGPA of 4.98. In the 2025 Convocation,
Computer Science graduated 171 students out of which 29 obtained
First Class (Honours), 65 Second Class Upper, 62 Second Class

Lower (Honours), and 15 Third Class (Honours).

Over the years, students and staff of the Computer Science
programme had been participating fully in the activities of the
Nigeria Computer Society and National Association of Computer
Science Students (NACOSS). The students participated in the 7th
Annual Information Development Programme of the Nigeria
Computer Society that took place at the Federal Polytechnic, Ilaro,
Ogun State from 29th October, 2015 to 30th October, 2015 and
obtained laurels. Since moving to the permanent site at Ede in Osun
State, our students have been involved in a number of inter-
university competitions and have won laurels.

.’,’-M‘W""

BSc INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
CURRICULUM (BMAS)

1.0 SECTION ONE - PREAMBLE

1.1 VISION OF THE UNIVERSITY

To be the foremost academic institution setting standards
continuous commitment to excellence geared towards
transformative impact on society.

1.2 MISSION OF THE UNIVERSITY

To continuously impact the society through commitment
excellence in  education, research, creativity,

entrepreneurship, and raising global leaders as change agents imb\
with God-fearing attributes. ‘

1.3 ABOUT THE PROGRAMME

Computer Science took off as a Department in the Univi
2014/2015 academic session having inherited Computer
programme from the Department of Mathe

matical Sciences in
College of Natural Sciences where it was being offered as )
However, Computer Science programme of the Dep
Mathematical Sciences took off at the inception of the
2005/2006 academic session. From 2014/2015 session 202
session, the Department of Computer Science © '
programmes, namely: BSc Computer Science (Honours), BS¢
Security (Honours) and BSc Information Technology (Honou!
the undergraduate level. From 2025/2026 session, the Depa
Computer Science has now evolved into a full-fledged Faculty
Computing and_ Digital Technologies, with three mmil Depart

— Computer Science, Cyber Security and Information Technology:


5.0 Curriculum (B.Sc. Information Technology)
First Semester 100 Level
Second Semester 100 level
First Semester 200 Level
Second Semester 200 Level
First Semester 300 Level
Second Semester 300 Level
First Semester 400 Level
Second Semester 400 Level
6.0 Summary of Course Units (BSc Information Technology)
7.0 Required Number of Units for Graduation 35
7.1 Course Grades and Degree Classification 35
7.2 Calculation of Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) 35

7.3 Probation and Withdrawals 36
8.0 Staff 37
8.1 Academic 37
8.2 Administrative & technical 37
8.3 Laboratory Equipment 38
9.0 Course Content Specification 38
Reference 48
2


Table of Contents
1.0 Section One — Preamble
1.1 Vision of The University
1.2 Mission of the University
1.3 About the Programme
2.0 Section Two — INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY cu:
2.1 Justification for Curriculum
2.2Philosophy and Objectives
3.0 Admission Requirements
3.1 Entry to 100 Level
3.2 Entry to 200 Level

3.3 Transfer of Students from another Pm,
University

3.4 Duration R j
4.0 Academic Regulations

4.1 Core/Compulsory

4.2 Elective

4.3 Workload

4.4 Probation, Withdrawals, Transfer to a newpto

4.5 Registration of Courses

4.6 Course Evaluation

4.7 Codes of Conduct

4.8 Request for review of examination's results !

4.9 Examination regulations and disciplinary actions
1

REDEEMER'’S UNIVERSITY
P.M.B. 230, EDE, OSU::,_SJgATE' NIGERIA

STUDENTS'

(BMAS)

DEPARTMENT OF

INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY